---
title: "&#128167; Time-Series Prediction of Field-Scale Evapotranspiration Using High Resolution Mapping of Evapotranspiration (HRMET) and Geostatistical Interpolation Techniques."
collection: publications
permalink: /publication/2022-11-08-Time-Series-Prediction
excerpt: 'This on-farm trial is based on data collected in 72 acre processing tomato field in Central Valley of California. At first, we generated the spatial evapotranspiration (ET) using the HRMET model for the flight days that combined meteorological estimates; crop and soil parameters; spectral and thermal imagery. The daily spatial values were approximated from these HRMET-generated maps implementing three different algorithms namely Linear Regression (LR), Weighted Piecewise Linear Interpolation (WPLI) and a variant of WPLI called Forward Interpolation (FI). The performances of these algorithms were evaluated using four metrics, named Nash-Sutcliffe Efficiency (NSE), Mean Absolute Error (MAE), Root Mean Squared Error (RMSE) and Kling-Gupta Efficiency (KGE).'
date: 2022-11-08
venue: 'ASA, CSSA, SSSA International Annual Meeting'
#paperurl: 'https://www.ijcai.org/proceedings/2022/0177.pdf'
#citation: 'Nazrul Shimim, F. N., Page-Fortin, M., Gal, A. J., Diaz, D. A., Whitaker, B., Nocco, M., & Jha, G. (2022) Time-Series Prediction of Field-Scale Evapotranspiration Using High Resolution Mapping of Evapotranspiration (HRMET) and Geostatistical Interpolation Techniques. [Abstract]. ASA, CSSA, SSSA International Annual Meeting, Baltimore, MD.'
header:
    teaser: ../images/publications/HRMET.png
---
Crop management activities are mainly dependent on moisture present in the soil and root matrix. Scheduling depends on the combination of evaporative demand from the atmosphere, spatial and temporal heterogeneity in soil properties and changes in crop canopy during a growing season. This on-farm trial is based on data collected in 72 acre processing tomato field in Central Valley of California. The Multiband Spectrometric Arable Mark 2 sensors were installed at three different locations in the field. Multispectral and thermal imagery provided by Ceres Imaging were collected eight times during the growing season by mounting the camera on a piloted aircraft. At first, we generated the spatial evapotranspiration (ET) using the HRMET model for the flight days that combined meteorological estimates; crop and soil parameters; spectral and thermal imagery. The daily spatial values were approximated from these HRMET-generated maps implementing three different algorithms namely Linear Regression (LR), Weighted Piecewise Linear Interpolation (WPLI) and a variant of WPLI called Forward Interpolation (FI). The performances of these algorithms were evaluated using four metrics, named Nash-Sutcliffe Efficiency (NSE), Mean Absolute Error (MAE), Root Mean Squared Error (RMSE) and Kling-Gupta Efficiency (KGE). Results show that LR is the most suitable algorithm to gap-fil between any two dates and approximate the ET maps for each day using all available (eight) imagery for the entire growing season, with an average MAE of 0.077 and a MAE range of [0.03, 0.15]. However, FI has the prediction capability, needs only the previous flight images to approximate the spatial ET for any date. Using this method, the average MAE was calculated as 0.061 for the whole season and the MAE range was [0.02 0.11]. The average RMSE errors for LR, WPLI and FI were calculated as 0.084, 0.087 and 0.069, respectively.

[See presentation here](https://scisoc.confex.com/scisoc/2022am/meetingapp.cgi/Paper/143951)

Recommended citation: Nazrul Shimim, F. N., Page-Fortin, M., Gal, A. J., Diaz, D. A., Whitaker, B., Nocco, M., & Jha, G. (2022) Time-Series Prediction of Field-Scale Evapotranspiration Using High Resolution Mapping of Evapotranspiration (HRMET) and Geostatistical Interpolation Techniques. [Abstract]. ASA, CSSA, SSSA International Annual Meeting, Baltimore, MD.